the UN Human Rights Chief says that they
are troubled by the treatment of
students who are protesting in
solidarity with Palestinians at us
universities the protest showed no sign
of slowing as they spread Coast to Coast
over the weekend and police crackdowns
and arrests continued students vow to
stay in tended encampments until their
demands are met now these are pictures
from Colombia University in New York
students occupying Hamilton Hall have
barricaded themselves inside the
building
they are in like with other states there
are activists that have joined students
calling for their universities to cut
ties with Israel they're also urging an
end to US military
aid we are traveled by a series of heavy
handed steps taken to disperse and
dismantle protest across University
campuses in the United States of America
freedom of expression and the right to
Peaceful assembly are fundamental to
society particularly when there is a
shack disagreement on major issues as
there are in relation to the conflict in
the cupied Palestinian territory and
Israel Let's cross over to Kristen
salumi she's outside Columbia University
in New York uh the tension was pretty
high there in the last 24 hours and many
more people joining the protest but the
focus seems to be on the building behind
you right
now that's right we're told it's calm on
campus but they are only allowing a very
limited number of people onto the campus
in an attempt to deescalate the
situation the encampment remains but
only students who live on campus are
being allowed to go onto the campus and
essential Personnel for the University
itself media not being allowed on
anymore to film what's happening as
those demonstrators have taken over the
building that you see over here that is
Hamilton Hall renamed hind Hall in honor
of the six-year-old girl who was killed
in
Gaza the demonstrators stormed that
building uh in the early morning hours
uh taking it over blockading it so no
one could get inside this is a group
that is autonomous from the group that
is uh in the encampment itself uh many
of the people who have been
participating in the demonstrations on
campus in fact can't get back on you
know not everybody was sleeping in that
tent area but a lot of supporters came
out when there was rumors of an arrest
yesterday as a deadline was set for the
students to clear the encampment many
teachers and other students came out to
surround it and prevent that from
happening no arrests were made uh but
the situation continued into the night
so this morning many were surprised to
learn that they could not get back on
campus uh should also say that the
suspension notices have been going out
to many students that have been
participating in these demonstrations
including some of the negotiators uh
getting notification from the University
that they have been suspended and in
regards to the people in Hamilton Hall
they are being threatened with an even
Ser more serious step they're being
threatened with expulsion uh meaning no
chance of returning to Colombia if they
don't vacate that Hall so far no find
that they are making a move and Kristen
of course as you say tension High the
police were there in pretty big numbers
uh on Monday what's the situation like
there now with the security
services honestly right now I'm not
seeing very many uh NYPD New York Police
Department officials there are uh they
do uh have patrols around the campus
they are stationed around the campus but
not as many as we have seen on other
days uh the buses that are used to take
away people when they are arrested uh I
haven't seen any signs of those but
security is very tight from the
University in terms of allowing people
on campus or not and there are plenty of
police standing by um the concern I
think from the administration is that
the police presence just brought more
attention and more supporters out last
time so there uh seems to be a war of
attrition going on here to try to get
more people off the campus less people
on the campus so that they don't have a
major development or scene on the campus
Christen seli there for us at Columbia
University in New York thank you let's
cross over to Phil lval who's at the
University of Connecticut in Mansfield
he's outside the police station where
people were brought in well Phil they
were brought in and detained have any of
them left
they have been sell in fact what we've
seen over the last two hours or so is
that every maybe 20 30 minutes a student
will come out having beam processed
they've got their papers and the crowd
who've come here to show solidarity to
show support break out into cheers of
Applause and they clap and they welcome
them back into the group and also we've
been seeing cars going past not just
students but people who look like they
come from all walks of society honking
their horns in support of those students
now this encampment was broken up early
today it had actually been in place
since Thursday but on Friday the
university said to those students look
these tents have got to go and you have
to Adar to a complete silence policy one
of a better phrase uh they University
says that the students did not do that
they said they were making what they
call Amplified noise the tents were
there they said as of Monday there were
20 tents earlier today the police
arrived they said look you've got to go
or you're going to be arrested some of
the students chose to leave others
stayed and that's why they've ended up
here being process and I got to bring in
man s now who's an activist who was
there this morning man you were not
arrested right I was not arrested to
just explain to us how it all unfolded
like what happened yeah so today in the
morning we were waking up around 5:00
a.m. and we noticed a huge increase in
police activity in the previous days
we've had maybe one or two Cruisers kind
of monitoring the situation today we had
maybe 40 50 cars uh pull up on campus we
then kind of saw them start you know
start increasing their presence getting
on the ground state troopers arrive they
start circling the entire Camp you con
PD they closed off all the entrances
they weren't letting students you know
go back in and out um and then they made
an announcement they said you know
whoever is left here uh will be arrested
and that was kind of the point where
some students decided to stay right to
make a stand to show the university that
look these students care about what
they're saying they're going to put
their money where their mouth is um and
as such the Yukon PD they rolled in they
swept the entire Camp they arrested
people They confiscated a lot of uh
supplies tents uh people's bags laptops
Etc um and yeah and the police had
already arrested people on previous days
as well I understand right so on
Thursday uh when initially when the
rally kind of took place in that Center
area uh students put up a few tents and
keep in mind this was before Yukon had
outwardly put out a policy of no tents
allowed so when students put up tents
Ukon PD started coming in they started
getting very uh physical with the
students started pushing in and they
ended up arresting one person actually
dislocating the shoulder are there any
plans to start up another protest maybe
not in the same place but is there any
PL to do do anything else more action
100% there's a plan to do more action on
campus and over the next couple hours uh
organizers will think about what is the
best way to do that it's not necessarily
a camp because it's important to
remember that the point of this movement
isn't just camps is to raise awareness
and to really show the administration
that we want them to come to our demands
all right thanks very much for that I
appreciate it just to tell you about
another situation this is at another
University Not A Million Miles Away Yale
which is about what 50 Mi away from here
uh there has been an encampment there
that encampment has now gone uh the
University City or rather the police
surrounded the campus area where the
tents were at 6:00 a.m. they said we are
going to arrest anybody who stays here
the students chose to leave the
university themselves started to say we
will start to invoke uh some
disciplinary procedures against you if
you leave those protesters decided that
it was best for them to leave for the
time being but as we've seen over the
last few days a protest ends and then it
begins again or they come back so
whether or not it is truly over that
remains to be seen sah thanks very much
filal for us at MIT now let's cross over
to John hendren who's at Princeton
University in New Jersey hi John um a
developing situation really there these
past 24 hours uh where you are what's
been going
on well overnight uh there were about 13
arrests students uh entered a a building
and uh some of them were taken out put
into a bus where police had planned to
cart them away but hundreds of students
surrounded that bus and were able to
negotiate their release they were
written up on disciplinary charges by
University Police not uh City police
that's a difference between you know a
civil action and a criminal action and
you might be wondering why I'm not at
Princeton University I'm across the
street where they're about to have a
news conference and the students who are
arrested are not allowed to go back on
campus so we are in the Town Square in
Princeton where they're about to address
what happened happed last night but
about a dozen arrests I think 13 was the
actual total and faculty were involved
they were helping escort those students
to try to protect them from police no
faculty were arrested but this is uh
really one of the latest scenes where
you're seeing this across the country
we've had more than 700 arrests and
these were simply the latest joh for us
there at Princeton in New Jersey thanks
very much let's go over to the US
capital Washington DC where sheab rans
is standing by at George Washington
University interesting we've been to
three universities already sheab
detention arrest detention arrest
detention arrest that hasn't been the
case where you are though has
it I mean there have been attempts to
arrest but but they've been sort of
filed by the protesters but the fact is
we know that the administrators here at
George Wasing University have asked the
police to come in and violently clear
the place and the police are saying
saying no it's quite it's quite bizarre
really actually let's talk to one of the
protesters one one is here with us I
mean it's strange though you get that
sense that if you were protesting
against Russia for example or you were
Pro protesting about climate change you
know the the head of the University were
like fine this is great but why do you
think she is or why why think they are
so so virant against this particular
protest yeah no I'm I think it's a
really great Point um and it's heavy on
all of our minds and I think the answer
is rather clear about um this is a
financial institution
this is not an academic institution um
and our demands are clear and it's for
them to divest and that is absolutely
something they're not committed to um
but more than that we're bringing
attention to an issue that they want to
gloss over and that's the genocide
happening in gusa um and I think that's
that's really the the important part
right why why would your administrators
at the academics you know the academic
infrastructure here be against you
drawing attention to that though yeah I
think it's definitely something that is
trying to be swept under the rug the way
that even most American is covering it
the New York Times think Publications
such as those refuse to use the word
genocide and and that's a word that
we're going to put out here on every
sign and and you can't walk by this
campus you can't walk through downtown
DC without seeing it then that leads to
the question of how you're so aware of
what's going on in Gaza and indeed you
know the depth of knowledge about the
nature of the Israeli
occupation and so on is huge here but
how how is it that you're also aware of
all of this when as you say Western
media is trying to avoid it all right
yeah absolutely um and you know my
honest answer is my specialty is not
this specific conflict not even Middle
East as a region um mine is Latin
America and I study borders and I study
migration because my own parents were
displaced because of us imperialism um
and but that's that's the the point
we're getting at here is that everyone
the students have come together and they
assess the world they assess what they
see what they see what they can feel
what they can touch and they say
something's wrong and something's up and
that's where the where the search for
knowledge happens right you have
students here who are inquisitive of
about the world around them and if
you're looking for answers it doesn't
take any time at all to find them to
find the truth and that is of course the
the the mass grapes the massacres that
are that are going on in Gaza and and
just all of the displacement that's
happening there and that's the term is
almost over so I mean what's going to
happen how is this going to resolve
itself do you think here at this
encampment yeah um I mean I as well as
fellow fellow encamps are are are here
to stay I think like I'm I mean I'm here
I'm here during the summer you know and
I know that Administration is too this
is where they live the president's house
is a block away um so if they think that
I mean this lack week last week of
classes is going to be any any indicator
of slowing down I think we have strong
Community Support it is a student
encampment that is backed by Community
because it's not just students that see
what's happening in gusa it's it's
community members that are coming in
outpouring of support um all across the
city and that's I mean as you mentioned
it's the community power that has
avoided violence that has avoided
arrests and has made sure that this
sustained effort can occur um in such a
powerful way that it has well thank you
very very much thank you so still a
determined student populace here at
George Washington University so thanks
very much she had brany there for us in
Washington DC thank you let's cross over
to heid Joe Castro live for us in Austin
in Texas at the University of Texas it
was just over 24 hours ago when we were
talking to each other Heidi and the
situation was getting very stressful for
students and faculty staff and those
either side of the protest debate it
seems to have C down definitely now uh
24 hours later but what's going on right
now that's right so it's it's a huge
difference than when we last spoke 24
hours ago but the protest Still Remains
here in a very different form behind me
is the lawn where we saw that encampment
that was broken down by police in which
protesters were dragged away one by one
despite sitting peacefully on the ground
and now this is a teaching this is the a
similar scene to what we' seen prior to
that spontaneous encampment bursting
forth yesterday and now we're learning
that more than 100 people protesting at
UT Austin yesterday were arrested by
police to our knowledge they still
remain in police detention we trying to
learn what charges they face what their
future might be but the protesters Who
Remain here say they are undaunted and
will continue to be delivering their
message and that's why I wanted to turn
to Our Guest this is Amar Kumi thanks so
much for joining us you're one of the
original organizers of the protest that
kicked off all of this last week tell me
about how this turn of events has
unfolded yeah so on Wednesday April 24th
we uh were we announced we were going to
have a peaceful demonstration uh on
campus a walk out followed by
educational teachings here on the south
lawn um we received uh notice from UT
that we that they were not going to
allow this to happen without giving any
basis for you know any sort of policy
that we would be in violation of uh and
we continued with the event um with the
officers with the with the just Army of
officers that UT Administration called
in which is similar to what we also saw
yesterday so let's jump forward to that
and you saw a ground swell of support
coming from the university community
describe what's seeing that manifest
around you felt like yeah no so I think
you know the the community saw that how
on April 24th uh the university had no
restraint in in violently uh suppressing
our voice and so when there was another
demonstration peaceful demonstration
that was being threatened by uh this
Army of police uh presidents called here
by the university uh you know although
we did not organize it we called on our
community to come out in support of this
demonstration of free speech um which
was uh threatened to be violated uh yet
again by our University uh who just
again showed no constraint uh in using
um any means of of of uh crowd dispersal
including mace including beating uh
protesters students with batons running
them over with motorcycles um you know
Mass arrests
hospitalizations uh it really just is
appalling to see uh our University take
such great uh take such great measures
in violently suppressing uh what is
supposed to be free speech from their
students and we certainly here we were
here to see some of the masing some of
the arrests uh police really just
tearing people out of the crowd and
putting them in handcuffs one by one to
see that uh overtake your camp campus
and then not only that but to see the
response because originally there were
several hundred but then it grew to a
thousand if not more talk about how that
happened yeah so I mean again I think
our community you know they understand
the sort of pressure we're under here at
UT I think we've become the most hostile
campus just based on a number of arrests
in the country um and I think our
community also understands the severity
of the situation given that we are
advocating for the liberation of a
people that are being that have been
under siege for the past 18 years that
are Curr ly under a brutal genocide that
has killed tens of thousands of children
uh men and men women and children uh and
the community understands that that The
Stance our University is taking to just
crack down uh despite the the Free
Speech despite the the subject of what
we're actually protesting our community
understands us and will always be there
to support us and for that we're very
grateful thank you so much ammer and as
you can see the the continued protest
now remains peaceful uh it's likely to
stay this way for the rest of the day
I'm told but there are other events
planned in the future still no word from
the UT Administration we sent requests
about why yesterday's police Crackdown
was ordered and the response to all the
chaos that we saw unfold afterwards so
hi DJ cter there for us at the
University of Texas in Austin thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer